@document.meta
title: {TITLE_INPUT}
description: 
authors: {AUTHOR}
categories: 
created: {TODAY}
updated: {TODAY}
version: 1.0.0
@end

* Agile Method (Generic)
  This is the generic template used in most agile teams and fits /most/ situations.

  *When to use*: _When none of the following templates fit better._

** What went Well?
   Things we are happy about.

** What went less well? 
   Things we should improve

** What do we want to try next? 
   Things we should do differently

** What puzzles us? 
   Unanswered questions we have

* Four Ls (Support People)
  Great template for supporting the individuals, and allows for thoughts and feelings to be shared
  regarding the process. An alternative could be to layout the categories as
  the values in the process (i.e. scrum values, education or school values, etc.)

  *When to use*: _When we want to examine the individuals involved in the body of work_

** Liked
   What did we like about this sprint?

** Learned
   What did we learn from last sprint?

** Lacked
   What do we think was missing from the last sprint?

** Longed for
   What could we have done better in the last sprint?

* Starfish method (Support the process)
  This template helps the group to look at current practices and processes and which 
  ones have more or less energy directed towards them? 

  *When to use*: _When we want to examine the process that governs the body of work (i.e. systems)._

** Start
   What do we need to start doing?

** More of
   What do we need to do more of that we're already doing?

** Continue
   What do we need to ensure we keep doing?

** Less of
   What do we need to do less of that we're already doing?

** Stop
   What are we doing now that we need to stop?

* Three Little Pigs (Support the organization)
  Offers the team a creative mechanism to identify short, medium, and long term
  actions that will bring stability.

  *When to use*: _When we want to examine the body of work as a whole._

** House of straw
   Things that could easily fall apart

** House of sticks
   Things that are working but could be improved

** House of bricks
   Things that are strong and stable

* War Stories (Focus on improvement)
  Offers a mechanism to constructively examine issues or a process that in general has not gone well. 

  *When to use*: _When a body of work has not been going well_

** Victories
   Where did we experience success and wins?

** Defeats
   Where did we fail and learn? Activly worked on but failed for one reason or another.

** Still fighting
   Where are there still battles? Paper cuts, persistent issues, things that have not had any action taken for them. 

** Training Camp
   How could we improve in future battles?

* Neutral Pragmatism (Focus on improvement)
  Like the "War stories" retro template, this one is more neutral and guides people towards solutions 
  while focusing on the impact of those issues (i.e. so what?)

  *When to use*: _When a body of work has not been going well_

** What?
   How would you describe the situation?

** So What?
   How does this affect us? 

** Now What?
   What do we need to do to move forward?
